---
title: EVM Tracing
sort_key: A
---

There are two different types of [transactions][transactions] 
in Ethereum: simple value transfers and contract executions. A value transfer just 
moves Ether from one account to another. If however the recipient of a transaction is 
a contract account with associated [EVM][evm] (Ethereum Virtual Machine) bytecode - beside 
transferring any Ether - the code will also be executed as part of the transaction.

Having code associated with Ethereum accounts permits transactions to do arbitrarily
complex data storage and enables them to act on the previously stored data by further
transacting internally with outside accounts and contracts. This creates an interlinked
ecosystem of contracts, where a single transaction can interact with tens or hundreds of
accounts.

The downside of contract execution is that it is very hard to say what a transaction
actually did. A transaction receipt does contain a status code to check whether execution
succeeded or not, but there is no way to see what data was modified, nor what external
contracts where invoked. Geth resolves this by re-running transactions locally and collecting
data about precisely what was executed by the EVM. This is known as "tracing" the transaction.


* TOC
{:toc}


## Tracing prerequisites

In its simplest form, tracing a transaction entails requesting the Ethereum node to
reexecute the desired transaction with varying degrees of data collection and have it
return the aggregated summary for post processing. Reexecuting a transaction however has a
few prerequisites to be met.

In order for an Ethereum node to reexecute a transaction, all historical state accessed 
by the transaction must be available. This includes:

* Balance, nonce, bytecode and storage of both the recipient as well as all internally invoked contracts.
* Block metadata referenced during execution of both the outer as well as all internally created transactions.
* Intermediate state generated by all preceding transactions contained in the same block as the one being traced.

This means there are limits on the transactions that can be traced imposed by the synchronization and 
pruning configuration of a node.

* An **archive** node retains **all historical data** back to genesis. It can therefore
trace arbitrary transactions at any point in the history of the chain. Tracing a single 
transaction requires reexecuting all preceding transactions in the same block.

* A **full synced** node retains the most recent 128 blocks in memory, so transactions in
that range are always accessible. Full nodes also store occasional checkpoints back to genesis
that can be used to rebuild the state at any point on-the-fly. This means older transactions
can be traced but if there is a large distance between the requested transaction and the most
recent checkpoint rebuilding the state can take a long time. Tracing a single
transaction requires reexecuting all preceding transactions in the same block.

* A **snap synced** node holds the most recent 128 blocks in memory, so transactions in that
range are always accessible. However, snap-sync only starts processing from a relatively recent
block (as opposed to genesis for a full node). Between the initial sync block and the 128 most
recent blocks, the node stores occasional checkpoints that can be used to rebuild the state on-the-fly.
This means transactions can be traced back as far as the block that was used for the initial sync.
Tracing a single transaction requires reexecuting all preceding transactions in the same block,
**and** all preceding blocks until the previous stored snapshot.

* A **light synced** node retrieving data **on demand** can in theory trace transactions
for which all required historical state is readily available in the network. This is because the data
required to generate the trace is requested from an les-serving full node. In practice, data 
availability **cannot** be reasonably assumed.

*There are exceptions to the above rules when running batch traces of entire blocks or
chain segments. Those will be detailed later.*

## Basic traces

The simplest type of transaction trace that Geth can generate are raw EVM opcode
traces. For every VM instruction the transaction executes, a structured log entry is
emitted, containing all contextual metadata deemed useful. This includes the *program
counter*, *opcode name*, *opcode cost*, *remaining gas*, *execution depth* and any
*occurred error*. The structured logs can optionally also contain the content of the
*execution stack*, *execution memory* and *contract storage*.

The entire output of an raw EVM opcode trace is a JSON object having a few metadata
fields: *consumed gas*, *failure status*, *return value*; and a list of *opcode entries*:

```json
{
  "gas":         25523,
  "failed":      false,
  "returnValue": "",
  "structLogs":  []
}
```

An example log for a single opcode entry has the following format:

```json
{
  "pc":      48,
  "op":      "DIV",
  "gasCost": 5,
  "gas":     64532,
  "depth":   1,
  "error":   null,
  "stack": [
    "00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffff",
    "0000000100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "2df07fbaabbe40e3244445af30759352e348ec8bebd4dd75467a9f29ec55d98d"
  ],
  "memory": [
    "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000060"
  ],
  "storage": {
  }
}
```

### Generating basic traces

To generate a raw EVM opcode trace, Geth provides a few [RPC APIendpoints](../rpc/ns-debug). 
The most commonly used is [`debug_traceTransaction`](../rpc/ns-debug#debug_tracetransaction).

In its simplest form, `traceTransaction` accepts a transaction hash as its only argument. It then
traces the transaction, aggregates all the generated data and returns it as a **large**
JSON object. A sample invocation from the Geth console would be:

```js
debug.traceTransaction("0xfc9359e49278b7ba99f59edac0e3de49956e46e530a53c15aa71226b7aa92c6f")
```

The same call can also be invoked from outside the node too via HTTP RPC (e.g. using Curl). In this
case, the HTTP endpoint must be enabled in Geth using the `--http` command and the `debug` API
namespace must be exposed using `--http.api=debug`.

```
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id": 1, "method": "debug_traceTransaction", "params": ["0xfc9359e49278b7ba99f59edac0e3de49956e46e530a53c15aa71226b7aa92c6f"]}' localhost:8545
```

To follow along with this tutorial, transaction hashes can be found from a local Geth node (e.g. by 
attaching a [Javascript console](/docs/interface/javascript-console) and running `eth.getBlock('latest')` 
then passing a transaction hash from the returned block to `debug.traceTransaction()`) or from a block 
explorer (for [Mainnet](https://etherscan.io/) or a [testnet](https://goerli.etherscan.io/)).

It is also possible to configure the trace by passing Boolean (true/false) values for four parameters
that tweak the verbosity of the trace. By default, the *EVM memory* and *Return data* are not reported 
but the *EVM stack* and *EVM storage* are. To report the maximum amount of data:

```shell
enableMemory: true
disableStack: false
disableStorage: false
enableReturnData: true
```

An example call, made in the Geth Javascript console, configured to report the maximum amount of data looks as follows:

```js
debug.traceTransaction("0xfc9359e49278b7ba99f59edac0e3de49956e46e530a53c15aa71226b7aa92c6f",{enableMemory: true, disableStack: false, disableStorage: false, enableReturnData: true})
```

Running the above operation on the Rinkeby network (with a node retaining enough history)
will result in this [trace dump](https://gist.github.com/karalabe/c91f95ac57f5e57f8b950ec65ecc697f).

Alternatively, disabling *EVM Stack*, *EVM Memory*, *Storage* and *Return data* (as demonstrated in the Curl request below)
results in the following, much shorter, [trace dump](https://gist.github.com/karalabe/d74a7cb33a70f2af75e7824fc772c5b4).

```
$ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id": 1, "method": "debug_traceTransaction", "params": ["0xfc9359e49278b7ba99f59edac0e3de49956e46e530a53c15aa71226b7aa92c6f", {"disableStack": true, "disableMemory": true, "disableStorage": true}]}' localhost:8545
```

### Limits of basic traces

Although the raw opcode traces generated above are useful, having an individual log entry for every single
opcode is too low level for most use cases, and will require developers to create additional tools to 
post-process the traces. Additionally, a full opcode trace can easily go into the hundreds of 
megabytes, making them very resource intensive to get out of the node and process externally.

To avoid those issues, Geth supports running custom JavaScript tracers *within* the Ethereum node, 
hich have full access to the EVM stack, memory and contract storage. This means developers only have to 
gather the data they actually need, and do any processing **at** the data. Please see the next section for our *custom in-node
tracers*.


## Pruning

Geth does in-memory state-pruning by default, discarding state entries that it deems
no longer necessary to maintain. This is configured via the `--gcmode` command. An error 
message alerting the user that the necessary state is not available is common in EVM tracing on 
anything other than an archive node.

```sh
Error: required historical state unavailable (reexec=128)
   at web3.js:6365:37(47)
   at send (web3,js:5099:62(35))
   at <eval>:1:23(13)
```

The pruning behaviour, and consequently the state availability and tracing capability of
a node depends on its sync and pruning configuration. The 'oldest' block after which
state is immediately available, and before which state is not immediately available, 
is known as the "pivot block". There are then several possible cases for a trace request
on a Geth node.

For tracing a transaction in block `B` where the pivot block is `P` can regenerate the desired 
state by replaying blocks from the last :

1. a fast-sync'd node can regenerate the desired state by replaying blocks from the most recent
checkpoint between `P` and `B` as long as `P` < `B`. If `P` > `B` there is no available checkpoint 
and the state cannot be regenerated without replying the chain from genesis.

2. a fully sync'd node can regenerate the desired state by replaying blocks from the last available
full state before `B`. A fully sync'd node re-executes all blocks from genesis, so checkpoints are available
across the entire history of the chain. However, database pruning discards older data, moving `P` to a more
recent position in the chain. If `P` > `B` there is no available checkpoint and the state cannot be 
regenerated without replaying the chain from genesis.

3. A fully-sync'd node without pruning (i.e. an archive node configured with `--gcmode=archive`) 
does not need to replay anything, it can immediately load up any state and serve the request for any `B`.

The time taken to regenerate a specific state increases with the distance between `P` and `B`. If the distance
between `P` and `B` is large, the regeneration time can be substantial.


## Javascript trace filters

Transaction traces include the complete status of the EVM at every point during the transaction execution, which
can be a very large amount of data. Often, users are only interested in a small subset of that data. Javascript trace
filters are available to isolate the useful information. Detailed information about `debug_traceTransaction` and its
component parts is available in the [reference documentation](/docs/rpc/ns-debug#debug_tracetransaction).

### A simple filter

Filters are Javascript functions that select information from the trace to persist and discard based on some
conditions. The following Javascript function returns only the sequence of opcodes executed by the transaction as a
comma-separated list. The function could be written directly in the Javascript console, but it is cleaner to 
write it in a separate re-usable file and load it into the console. 

1. Create a file, `filterTrace_1.js`, with this content:

   ```javascript

   tracer = function(tx) {
      return debug.traceTransaction(tx, {tracer:
         '{' +
            'retVal: [],' +
            'step: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ":" + log.op.toString())},' +
            'fault: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push("FAULT: " + JSON.stringify(log))},' +
            'result: function(ctx,db) {return this.retVal}' +
         '}'
      }) // return debug.traceTransaction ...
   }   // tracer = function ...

   ```

2. Run the [JavaScript console](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/interface/javascript-console).
   
3. Get the hash of a recent transaction from a node or block explorer.

4. Run this command to run the script:

   ```javascript
   loadScript("filterTrace_1.js")
   ```

5. Run the tracer from the script. Be patient, it could take a long time.

   ```javascript
   tracer("<hash of transaction>")
   ```

   The bottom of the output looks similar to:
   ```sh
   "3366:POP", "3367:JUMP", "1355:JUMPDEST", "1356:PUSH1", "1358:MLOAD", "1359:DUP1", "1360:DUP3", "1361:ISZERO", "1362:ISZERO",
   "1363:ISZERO", "1364:ISZERO", "1365:DUP2", "1366:MSTORE", "1367:PUSH1", "1369:ADD", "1370:SWAP2", "1371:POP", "1372:POP", "1373:PUSH1",
   "1375:MLOAD", "1376:DUP1", "1377:SWAP2", "1378:SUB", "1379:SWAP1", "1380:RETURN"
   ```

6. Run this line to get a more readable output with each string in its own line.

   ```javascript
   console.log(JSON.stringify(tracer("<hash of transaction>"), null, 2))
   ```

More information about the `JSON.stringify` function is available
[here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify). 

The commands above worked by calling the same `debug.traceTransaction` function that was previously 
explained in [basic traces](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/dapp/tracing), but with a new parameter, `tracer`. 
This parameter takes the JavaScript object formated as a string. In the case of the trace above, it is:

```javascript
{
   retVal: [],
   step: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ":" + log.op.toString())},
   fault: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push("FAULT: " + JSON.stringify(log))},
   result: function(ctx,db) {return this.retVal}
}
```
This object has three member functions:

- `step`, called for each opcode.
- `fault`, called if there is a problem in the execution.
- `result`, called to produce the results that are returned by `debug.traceTransaction` after the execution is done.

In this case, `retVal` is used to store the list of strings to return in `result`.

The `step` function adds to `retVal` the program counter and the name of the opcode there. Then, in `result`, this
list is returned to be sent to the caller.


### Filtering with conditions

For actual filtered tracing we need an `if` statement to only log relevant information. For example, to isolate
the transaction's interaction with storage, the following tracer could be used:

```javascript
tracer = function(tx) {
      return debug.traceTransaction(tx, {tracer:
      '{' +
         'retVal: [],' +
         'step: function(log,db) {' +
         '   if(log.op.toNumber() == 0x54) ' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SLOAD");' +
         '   if(log.op.toNumber() == 0x55) ' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SSTORE");' +
         '},' +
         'fault: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push("FAULT: " + JSON.stringify(log))},' +
         'result: function(ctx,db) {return this.retVal}' +
      '}'
      }) // return debug.traceTransaction ...
}   // tracer = function ...
```

The `step` function here looks at the opcode number of the op, and only pushes an entry if the opcode is
`SLOAD` or `SSTORE` ([here is a list of EVM opcodes and their numbers](https://github.com/wolflo/evm-opcodes)).
We could have used `log.op.toString()` instead, but it is faster to compare numbers rather than strings.

The output looks similar to this:

```javascript
[
  "5921: SLOAD",
  .
  .
  .
  "2413: SSTORE",
  "2420: SLOAD",
  "2475: SSTORE",
  "6094: SSTORE"
]
```


### Stack Information

The trace above reports the program counter (PC) and whether the program read from storage or wrote to it. 
That alone isn't particularly useful. To know more, the `log.stack.peek` function can be used to peek 
into the stack. `log.stack.peek(0)` is the stack top, `log.stack.peek(1)` the entry below it, etc.

The values returned by `log.stack.peek` are Go `big.Int` objects. By default they are converted to JavaScript 
floating point numbers, so you need `toString(16)` to get them as hexadecimals, which is how 256-bit values such as
storage cells and their content are normally represented.

#### Storage Information

The function below provides a trace of all the storage operations and their parameters. This gives
a more complete picture of the program's interaction with storage. 

```javascript
tracer = function(tx) {
      return debug.traceTransaction(tx, {tracer:
      '{' +
         'retVal: [],' +
         'step: function(log,db) {' +
         '   if(log.op.toNumber() == 0x54) ' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SLOAD " + ' +
         '        log.stack.peek(0).toString(16));' +
         '   if(log.op.toNumber() == 0x55) ' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SSTORE " +' +
         '        log.stack.peek(0).toString(16) + " <- " +' +
         '        log.stack.peek(1).toString(16));' +
         '},' +
         'fault: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push("FAULT: " + JSON.stringify(log))},' +
         'result: function(ctx,db) {return this.retVal}' +
      '}'
      }) // return debug.traceTransaction ...
}   // tracer = function ...

```

The output is similar to:

```javascript
[
  "5921: SLOAD 0",
  .
  .
  .
  "2413: SSTORE 3f0af0a7a3ed17f5ba6a93e0a2a05e766ed67bf82195d2dd15feead3749a575d <- fb8629ad13d9a12456",
  "2420: SLOAD cc39b177dd3a7f50d4c09527584048378a692aed24d31d2eabeddb7f3c041870",
  "2475: SSTORE cc39b177dd3a7f50d4c09527584048378a692aed24d31d2eabeddb7f3c041870 <- 358c3de691bd19",
  "6094: SSTORE 0 <- 1"
]
```

#### Operation Results

One piece of information missing from the function above is the result on an `SLOAD` operation. The
state we get inside `log` is the state prior to the execution of the opcode, so that value is not
known yet. For more operations we can figure it out for ourselves, but we don't have access to the
storage, so here we can't.

The solution is to have a flag, `afterSload`, which is only true in the opcode right after an
`SLOAD`, when we can see the result at the top of the stack.

```javascript
tracer = function(tx) {
      return debug.traceTransaction(tx, {tracer:
      '{' +
         'retVal: [],' +
         'afterSload: false,' +
         'step: function(log,db) {' +
         '   if(this.afterSload) {' +
         '     this.retVal.push("    Result: " + ' +
         '          log.stack.peek(0).toString(16)); ' +
         '     this.afterSload = false; ' +
         '   } ' +
         '   if(log.op.toNumber() == 0x54) {' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SLOAD " + ' +
         '        log.stack.peek(0).toString(16));' +
         '        this.afterSload = true; ' +
         '   } ' +
         '   if(log.op.toNumber() == 0x55) ' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SSTORE " +' +
         '        log.stack.peek(0).toString(16) + " <- " +' +
         '        log.stack.peek(1).toString(16));' +
         '},' +
         'fault: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push("FAULT: " + JSON.stringify(log))},' +
         'result: function(ctx,db) {return this.retVal}' +
      '}'
      }) // return debug.traceTransaction ...
}   // tracer = function ...
```

The output now contains the result in the line that follows the `SLOAD`. 

```javascript
[
  "5921: SLOAD 0",
  "    Result: 1",
  .
  .
  .
  "2413: SSTORE 3f0af0a7a3ed17f5ba6a93e0a2a05e766ed67bf82195d2dd15feead3749a575d <- fb8629ad13d9a12456",
  "2420: SLOAD cc39b177dd3a7f50d4c09527584048378a692aed24d31d2eabeddb7f3c041870",
  "    Result: 0",
  "2475: SSTORE cc39b177dd3a7f50d4c09527584048378a692aed24d31d2eabeddb7f3c041870 <- 358c3de691bd19",
  "6094: SSTORE 0 <- 1"
]
```

### Dealing With Calls Between Contracts

So the storage has been treated as if there are only 2<sup>256</sup> cells. However, that is not true. 
Contracts can call other contracts, and then the storage involved is the storage of the other contract. 
We can see the address of the current contract in `log.contract.getAddress()`. This value is the execution 
context - the contract whose storage we are using - even when code from another contract is executed (by using
[`CALLCODE` or `DELEGATECALL`][solidity-delcall]).

However, `log.contract.getAddress()` returns an array of bytes. To convert this to the familiar hexadecimal
representation of Ethereum addresses, `this.byteHex()` and `array2Hex()` can be used.

```javascript
tracer = function(tx) {
      return debug.traceTransaction(tx, {tracer:
      '{' +
         'retVal: [],' +
         'afterSload: false,' +
         'callStack: [],' +

         'byte2Hex: function(byte) {' +
         '  if (byte < 0x10) ' +
         '      return "0" + byte.toString(16); ' +
         '  return byte.toString(16); ' +
         '},' +

         'array2Hex: function(arr) {' +
         '  var retVal = ""; ' +
         '  for (var i=0; i<arr.length; i++) ' +
         '    retVal += this.byte2Hex(arr[i]); ' +
         '  return retVal; ' +
         '}, ' +

         'getAddr: function(log) {' +
         '  return this.array2Hex(log.contract.getAddress());' +
         '}, ' +

         'step: function(log,db) {' +
         '   var opcode = log.op.toNumber();' +

         // SLOAD
         '   if (opcode == 0x54) {' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SLOAD " + ' +
         '        this.getAddr(log) + ":" + ' +
         '        log.stack.peek(0).toString(16));' +
         '        this.afterSload = true; ' +
         '   } ' +

         // SLOAD Result
         '   if (this.afterSload) {' +
         '     this.retVal.push("    Result: " + ' +
         '          log.stack.peek(0).toString(16)); ' +
         '     this.afterSload = false; ' +
         '   } ' +

         // SSTORE
         '   if (opcode == 0x55) ' +
         '     this.retVal.push(log.getPC() + ": SSTORE " +' +
         '        this.getAddr(log) + ":" + ' +
         '        log.stack.peek(0).toString(16) + " <- " +' +
         '        log.stack.peek(1).toString(16));' +

         // End of step
         '},' +

         'fault: function(log,db) {this.retVal.push("FAULT: " + JSON.stringify(log))},' +

         'result: function(ctx,db) {return this.retVal}' +
      '}'
      }) // return debug.traceTransaction ...
}   // tracer = function ...
```

The output is similar to:

```javascript
[
  "423: SLOAD 22ff293e14f1ec3a09b137e9e06084afd63addf9:360894a13ba1a3210667c828492db98dca3e2076cc3735a920a3ca505d382bbc",
  "    Result: 360894a13ba1a3210667c828492db98dca3e2076cc3735a920a3ca505d382bbc",
  "10778: SLOAD 22ff293e14f1ec3a09b137e9e06084afd63addf9:6",
  "    Result: 6",
  .
  .
  .
  "13529: SLOAD f2d68898557ccb2cf4c10c3ef2b034b2a69dad00:8328de571f86baa080836c50543c740196dbc109d42041802573ba9a13efa340",
  "    Result: 8328de571f86baa080836c50543c740196dbc109d42041802573ba9a13efa340",
  "423: SLOAD f2d68898557ccb2cf4c10c3ef2b034b2a69dad00:360894a13ba1a3210667c828492db98dca3e2076cc3735a920a3ca505d382bbc",
  "    Result: 360894a13ba1a3210667c828492db98dca3e2076cc3735a920a3ca505d382bbc",
  "13529: SLOAD f2d68898557ccb2cf4c10c3ef2b034b2a69dad00:b38558064d8dd9c883d2a8c80c604667ddb90a324bc70b1bac4e70d90b148ed4",
  "    Result: b38558064d8dd9c883d2a8c80c604667ddb90a324bc70b1bac4e70d90b148ed4",
  "11041: SSTORE 22ff293e14f1ec3a09b137e9e06084afd63addf9:6 <- 0"
]
```



## Other traces

This tutorial has focused on `debug_traceTransaction()` which reports information about individual transactions. There are
also RPC endpoints that provide different information, including tracing the EVM execution within a block, between two blocks, 
for specific `eth_call`s or rejected blocks. The fill list of trace functions can be explored in the 
[reference documentation][debug-docs].


## Go Native Tracing

It is also possible to trace EVM execution using Go functions that wrap RPC calls to a Geth node. This provides 
programmatic access to trace dumps meaning retrieval and downstream analysis of the trace information can all be 
self-contained within a Go application. The source code for the tracers is available to browse on the
[Geth Github][go-tracer-source]. This page will demonstrate how to handle `traceTransaction` from a Go application.
The concepts covered here can be transferred to the other types of trace described in the reference documentation.

The tracers are implemnted as functions associated with the `debug` class. The arguments
are a `ctx` object (which configures the request), a transaction hash and a `TraceConfig` object. The `TraceConfig`
object has the following structure:

```go
type TraceConfig struct {
	*logger.Config
	Tracer  *string
	Timeout *string
	Reexec  *uint64
}
```

The `tracer` field in `TraceConfig` is a string-formatted Javascript object that configures the trace as described in
the [Javascript trace filters](#javascript-trace-filters) section. Timeout is a string that overrides the default 5 second
request timeout - the valid values are described in the [Go Time][go-time] documentation. `Reexec` is an integer that 
defines how many blocks behind the head of the chain to look for a checkpoint to rebuild the requested state from - large
values can lead to long state regeneration times. If the user encounter a `required historical state is not available` error
then adjusting `Reexec` is likely to fix it.

The `Tracetransaction()` Go function returns the structured logs created during the execution of EVM
and returns them as a JSON object. 

A call to `TraceTransaction()` in Go therefore looks as follows:

```go
trace, err := debug.TraceTransaction(txHash, traceConfig) (*ExecutionResult, error)
if err != nil {
	return nil, err
	}
```


## Summary

This tutorial only taught the basics of using JavaScript to filter traces. We did not go over access to memory,
or how to use the `db` parameter to know the state of the chain at the time of execution. All this and more is
covered [in the reference](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/ns-debug#javascript-based-tracing).

Hopefully with this tool you will find it easier to trace the EVM's behavior and debug thorny contract issues.






[transactions]: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/transactions
[evm]: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm
[solidity-delcall]:https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.14/introduction-to-smart-contracts.html#delegatecall-callcode-and-libraries
[debug-docs]: /docs/rpc/ns-debug
[go-tracer-source]: https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/blob/master/eth/tracers/api.go
[go-time]:https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration